README.md, before:

### Install drivers in the Ubuntu system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-ubuntu

### Install drivers in the Kali system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-kali

### Install drivers in the RetroPie system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-retropie



Install drivers in the Raspbian system<br>
====================================================
Update: <br>
  v2.1-20191106<br>
  Update to support MHS35B<br>
Update: <br>
  v2.0-20190704<br>
  Update to support rotate the display direction<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.9-20181204<br>
  Update to support MHS40 & MHS32<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.8-20180907<br>
  Update to support MHS35<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.7-20180320<br>
  Update to support Raspbian Version: March 2018(Release date:2018-03-13)<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.6-20170824<br>
  Update xserver to support Raspbian-2017-08-16<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.5-20170706<br>
  Update to support Raspbian-2017-07-05, Raspbian-2017-06-21<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.3-20170612<br>
  fixed to support Raspbian-2017-03-02, Raspbian-2017-04-10<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.2-20170302<br>
  Add xserver-xorg-input-evdev_1%3a2.10.3-1_armhf.deb to support Raspbian-2017-03-02<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.1-20160815<br><br>


# How to install the LCD driver of Raspberry Pi
  
1.)Step1, Install Raspbian official mirror <br>
====================================================
  a)Download Raspbian official mirror:<br>
  https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/<br>
  b)Use“SDFormatter.exe”to Format your TF Card<br>
  c)Use“Win32DiskImager.exe” Burning mirror to TF Card<br>
     
2.) Step2, Clone my repo onto your pi<br>
====================================================
Use SSH to connect the Raspberry Pi, <br>
And Ensure that the Raspberry Pi is connected to the Internet before executing the following commands:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```sudo rm -rf LCD-show```<br>
```git clone https://github.com/goodtft/LCD-show.git```<br>
```chmod -R 755 LCD-show```<br>
```cd LCD-show/```<br>
  
3.)Step3, According to your LCD's type, excute the corresponding driver:
====================================================

# 2.4” RPi Display (MPI2401):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD24-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.4inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.4inch_RPi_Display
 

# 2.4” RPi Display For RPi 3A+ (MPI2411):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD24-3A+-show  
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.4inch_RPi_Display_For_RPi_3A+   <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.4inch_RPi_Display_For_RPi_3A+

# 2.8” RPi Display (MPI2801):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD28-show 
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.8inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.8inch_RPi_Display
  
# 3.2” RPi Display (MPI3201):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD32-show   
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.2inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.2inch_RPi_Display

# MHS-3.2” RPi Display (MHS3232):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS32-show   
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.2inch_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.2inch_Display

# 3.5” RPi Display(MPI3501):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD35-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.5inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.5inch_RPi_Display
   
# 3.5” HDMI Display-B(MPI3508):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI3508-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.5inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.5inch_HDMI_Display-B
    
# MHS-3.5” RPi Display(MHS3528):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS35-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN:http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display

# MHS-3.5” RPi Display-B(MHS35XX):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS35B-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display-B  <br>
EN:http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display-B

# 4.0" HDMI Display(MPI4008):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI4008-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/4inch_HDMI_Display-C  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/4inch_HDMI_Display-C
   
# MHS-4.0" HDMI Display-B(MHS4001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS40-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-4.0inch_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-4.0inch_Display-B
  
# 5.0” HDMI Display(Resistance touch)(MPI5008):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD5-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/5inch_HDMI_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/5inch_HDMI_Display
    
# 5inch HDMI Display-B(Capacitor touch)(MPI5001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI5001-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/5inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/5inch_HDMI_Display-B
    
# 7inch HDMI Display-B-800X480(MPI7001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD7B-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/7inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/7inch_HDMI_Display-B
   
# 7inch HDMI Display-C-1024X600(MPI7002):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD7C-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/7inch_HDMI_Display-C  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/7inch_HDMI_Display-C
   
Wait for a moment after executing the above command, then you can use the corresponding raspberry LCD.




# How to rotate the display direction

This method only applies to the Raspberry Pi series of display screens, other display screens do not apply.

### Method 1, If the driver is not installed, execute the following command (Raspberry Pi needs to connected to the Internet):

sudo rm -rf LCD-show<br>
git clone https://github.com/goodtft/LCD-show.git<br>
chmod -R 755 LCD-show<br>
cd LCD-show/<br>
sudo ./XXX-show 90<br>

After execution, the driver will be installed. The system will automatically restart, and the display screen will rotate 90 degrees to display and touch normally.<br>
( ' XXX-show ' can be changed to the corresponding driver, and ' 90 ' can be changed to 0, 90, 180 and 270, respectively representing rotation angles of 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 degrees)<br>

### Method 2, If the driver is already installed, execute the following command:

cd LCD-show/<br>
sudo ./rotate.sh 90<br>

After execution, the system will automatically restart, and the display screen will rotate 90 degrees to display and touch normally.<br>
( ' 90 ' can be changed to 0, 90, 180 and 270, respectively representing rotation angles of 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 degrees)<br>
(If the rotate.sh prompt cannot be found, use Method 1 to install the latest drivers)

Commit message:

Add LCD35 diagnostics and watchdog helpers

README.md, after:

### Install drivers in the Ubuntu system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-ubuntu

### Install drivers in the Kali system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-kali

### Install drivers in the RetroPie system
https://github.com/lcdwiki/LCD-show-retropie



Install drivers in the Raspbian system<br>
====================================================
Update: <br>
  v2.1-20191106<br>
  Update to support MHS35B<br>
Update: <br>
  v2.0-20190704<br>
  Update to support rotate the display direction<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.9-20181204<br>
  Update to support MHS40 & MHS32<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.8-20180907<br>
  Update to support MHS35<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.7-20180320<br>
  Update to support Raspbian Version: March 2018(Release date:2018-03-13)<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.6-20170824<br>
  Update xserver to support Raspbian-2017-08-16<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.5-20170706<br>
  Update to support Raspbian-2017-07-05, Raspbian-2017-06-21<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.3-20170612<br>
  fixed to support Raspbian-2017-03-02, Raspbian-2017-04-10<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.2-20170302<br>
  Add xserver-xorg-input-evdev_1%3a2.10.3-1_armhf.deb to support Raspbian-2017-03-02<br>
Update: <br>
  v1.1-20160815<br><br>

## LCD35 reliability helpers
For the 3.5" SPI-based LCD35 panel, additional tooling is included to help with power-loss recovery and troubleshooting:

- `LCD35-diagnose` runs a series of framebuffer, module, X server, and touch checks, logging details to `/var/log/lcd35-init.log`.
- `LCD35-recover` performs a full module reload, framebuffer reset, and optional LightDM restart to bring the display back after a bad boot.
- `usr/local/bin/lcd35-watchdog.sh` and `etc/systemd/system/lcd35-watchdog.service` provide a watchdog loop that periodically tests `/dev/fb1` and triggers recovery if the framebuffer stops responding.

Copy the scripts to `/usr/local/bin` (or run them from this repository) and enable the watchdog with `sudo systemctl enable --now lcd35-watchdog.service` after installing the service unit.


# How to install the LCD driver of Raspberry Pi
  
1.)Step1, Install Raspbian official mirror <br>
====================================================
  a)Download Raspbian official mirror:<br>
  https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/<br>
  b)Use“SDFormatter.exe”to Format your TF Card<br>
  c)Use“Win32DiskImager.exe” Burning mirror to TF Card<br>
     
2.) Step2, Clone my repo onto your pi<br>
====================================================
Use SSH to connect the Raspberry Pi, <br>
And Ensure that the Raspberry Pi is connected to the Internet before executing the following commands:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

```sudo rm -rf LCD-show```<br>
```git clone https://github.com/goodtft/LCD-show.git```<br>
```chmod -R 755 LCD-show```<br>
```cd LCD-show/```<br>
  
3.)Step3, According to your LCD's type, excute the corresponding driver:
====================================================

# 2.4” RPi Display (MPI2401):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD24-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.4inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.4inch_RPi_Display
 

# 2.4” RPi Display For RPi 3A+ (MPI2411):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD24-3A+-show  
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.4inch_RPi_Display_For_RPi_3A+   <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.4inch_RPi_Display_For_RPi_3A+

# 2.8” RPi Display (MPI2801):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD28-show 
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/2.8inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/2.8inch_RPi_Display
  
# 3.2” RPi Display (MPI3201):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD32-show   
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.2inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.2inch_RPi_Display

# MHS-3.2” RPi Display (MHS3232):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS32-show   
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.2inch_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.2inch_Display

# 3.5” RPi Display(MPI3501):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD35-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.5inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.5inch_RPi_Display
   
# 3.5” HDMI Display-B(MPI3508):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI3508-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/3.5inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/3.5inch_HDMI_Display-B
    
# MHS-3.5” RPi Display(MHS3528):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS35-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display  <br>
EN:http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display

# MHS-3.5” RPi Display-B(MHS35XX):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS35B-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display-B  <br>
EN:http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-3.5inch_RPi_Display-B

# 4.0" HDMI Display(MPI4008):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI4008-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/4inch_HDMI_Display-C  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/4inch_HDMI_Display-C
   
# MHS-4.0" HDMI Display-B(MHS4001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MHS40-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/MHS-4.0inch_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/MHS-4.0inch_Display-B
  
# 5.0” HDMI Display(Resistance touch)(MPI5008):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD5-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/5inch_HDMI_Display  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/5inch_HDMI_Display
    
# 5inch HDMI Display-B(Capacitor touch)(MPI5001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./MPI5001-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/5inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/5inch_HDMI_Display-B
    
# 7inch HDMI Display-B-800X480(MPI7001):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD7B-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/7inch_HDMI_Display-B  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/7inch_HDMI_Display-B
   
# 7inch HDMI Display-C-1024X600(MPI7002):
### Driver install:
sudo ./LCD7C-show
### WIKI:
CN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/zh/7inch_HDMI_Display-C  <br>
EN: http://www.lcdwiki.com/7inch_HDMI_Display-C
   
Wait for a moment after executing the above command, then you can use the corresponding raspberry LCD.




# How to rotate the display direction

This method only applies to the Raspberry Pi series of display screens, other display screens do not apply.

### Method 1, If the driver is not installed, execute the following command (Raspberry Pi needs to connected to the Internet):

sudo rm -rf LCD-show<br>
git clone https://github.com/goodtft/LCD-show.git<br>
chmod -R 755 LCD-show<br>
cd LCD-show/<br>
sudo ./XXX-show 90<br>

After execution, the driver will be installed. The system will automatically restart, and the display screen will rotate 90 degrees to display and touch normally.<br>
( ' XXX-show ' can be changed to the corresponding driver, and ' 90 ' can be changed to 0, 90, 180 and 270, respectively representing rotation angles of 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 degrees)<br>

### Method 2, If the driver is already installed, execute the following command:

cd LCD-show/<br>
sudo ./rotate.sh 90<br>

After execution, the system will automatically restart, and the display screen will rotate 90 degrees to display and touch normally.<br>
( ' 90 ' can be changed to 0, 90, 180 and 270, respectively representing rotation angles of 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 degrees)<br>
(If the rotate.sh prompt cannot be found, use Method 1 to install the latest drivers)
